# My own shell


The implementation of a shell can be divided into 3 different parts:<br/>
  + __Parser__:
    + It is the software component that reads the command line like "ls -l" and puts it into a data structure called **command table**.
  + __Executor__:
    + This takes the command table generated by the parser and for every *SimpleCommand* in the array and creates a new process.
    + Executor also would create pipes if necessary to communicate the output of one file to the input of the next one.
    + This is responsible for redirecting the stdin, stdout, stderr if there are any redirections.
  + __Shell Subsystems__:
    + Some of the subsytems that complete our shell are:
      + **Environment variables**: 
        + Expressions of the form ${VAR}.
        + A shell should be able to set, expand and print environment variables.
      + **Wildcards**:
        + Arguments of the form a*a are expanded to all the files that match them in the local directory and in multiple directories.
      + **Subshells**:
        + Arguments between ``(backticks) are executed and is sent as input to the shell.
        <br/>
The tools used to implement my parser were Lex and Yacc(was taught in Introduction to Language Processing course by Dr. Rishi Ranjan).
These tools are generally employed to implement compilers, interpreters and preprocessors.A parser is divided into two parts a 
**lexical analyzer** and a **lexer** takes input as characters and outputs tokens. The tokens are described in a file named 
**shell.l** using regex, this file is processed using lex that generates the lexical analyzer. The grammar rules used by the parser
are defined in a file named **shell.y** using syntax expressions that are described later. This shell.y file is processed using the
yacc tool that generates a parser program. The shell grammar is __`cmd[arg]* [| cmd[arg]* ]* [ [> filename] [< filename] [>& filename]
[>> filename] [>>& filename] ]* [&]`__. This form of shell grammar is Backus-Naur form.
<br/>
<br/>
__The Command table__:
  + It is an array of the SimpleCommand structs.
